# 3.1 Rings - Examples and Basic Properties

## Definition
A set $R$ is called a ***ring*** if it has two binary operations, written as addition and multiplication, satisfying the following axioms for all $a,b,$ and $c$ in $R$.

- (R1) $a+b=b+a$.
- (R2) $a+(b+c)=(a+b)+c$.
- (R3) An element $0$ in $R$ exists such that $0+a=0$ for all $a$.
- (R4) For each $a$ in $F$ an element $-a$ in $R$ exists such that $a+(-a)=0$.
- (R5) $a(bc)=(ab)c$.
- (R6) An element $1$ in $R$ exists such that $1 \cdot a = a = a \cdot 1$ for all $a$.
- (R7) $a(b+c) = ab + ac$ and $(b+c)a = ba + ca$.

If (R8) below is satisfied then $R$ is called a commutative ring.
- (R8) $ab=ba$ for all $a$ and $b$ in $R$.

---

Some authors don't require a ring to have a unity (so its not a ring according to definition), due to some category theory stuff. The book refers to them as *general* rings.

## Componentwise operations
If $R_1, R_2, \dots, R_n$ are rings, then componentwise operations are defined like compontent wise operations. See page 161. The product $R_1 \times R_2 \times \cdots \times R_n$ is a ring, the direct product of the rings, and commutative iff each ring is commutative.

## Theorem 1
If $0$ is the zero of a ring $R$, then $0r=0=r0$ for every $r \in R$.

---

The zero ring $\{ 0 \}$ is a ring.

If we have an $n \times n$ matrix with fields from a ring $R$, then they form a ring.


### Exponent notation for addition
When we write the $n$th power of $a$ we mean the $n$th multiple of $a$. So for example, $a^{n+m}$ in the context of addition translates to $(n+m)a$.

### More notation

If $1_R$ is the unity of $R$, then we write $1_R + 1_R = 2$ and in general $k \cdot 1_R = k$ for all integers $k$ whenever no confusion can result.

## Theorem 2
Let $r$ and $s$ be arbitrary elements of a ring $R$.
- (1) $(-r)s = r(-s) = -(rs)$.
- (2) $(-r)(-s) = rs$.
- (3) $(mr)(ns) = mn(rs)$ for all integers $m$ and $n$.

### Difference
The difference of $r,s \in R$ is defined to be $r-s=r+(-s)$.

## Characteristic
If $R$ is a ring then the characteristic of $R$ denoted $\text{char} \; R$ in terms of the order of $1_R$ in the additive group $(R,+)$:
$$
\text{char} \; R = n \quad \text{ if } o(1_R) = n \text{ in the additive group } (R,+), \\
\text{char} \; R = 0 \quad \text{ if } o(1_R) = \infty \text{ in the additive group } (R,+),$$

## Theorem 3
If $R$ is a ring and $\text{char}\; R=n$ then
- (1) If $\text{char}\; R = n > 0$, then $kR = 0$ if and only if $n$ divides $k$.
- (2) If $\text{char}\; R = 0$, then $R=0$ if and only if $k=0$.

## Theorem 4 (***Binomial Theorem***)

Let $a$ and $b$ be elements in a ring $R$ which commute, that is $ab=ba$. Then, for each $n \geq 0$
$$
(a+b)^n = \begin{pmatrix}
n \\
0
\end{pmatrix} a^n + \begin{pmatrix}
n \\
1
\end{pmatrix} a^{n-1} b+ \begin{pmatrix}
n \\
2
\end{pmatrix}

a^{n-2} b^2 + \cdots + \begin{pmatrix}
n \\
n-1
\end{pmatrix}ab^{n-1} + \begin{pmatrix}
n \\
n
\end{pmatrix} b^n,
$$
where

$$
\begin{pmatrix}
n \\
n
\end{pmatrix}  = \frac{n!}{k!(n-k)!}
$$

denotes the binomial coefficient.

## Subring
A subset $S$ of a ring $R$ if $S$ is itself a ring with the same operations and unity as $R$. Then $S$ is called a subring.

## Theorem 5 (***Subring Test***)

A subset $S$ of a ring $R$ is a subring if and only if the following conditions are satisfied.

- (1) $0 \in S$ and $1 \in S$.
- (2) If $s \in S$ and $t \in S$, then $s+t, st,$ and $-s$ are all in $S$.

## Unit

An element $u \in R$ is a unity of $R$ if it has a multiplicative inverse in $R$. The set of all units in $R$ is denoted $R^*$ and is a multiplicative group called the group of units of the ring $R$.

## Divsion Ring
A ring $R \neq 0$ is called a division ring (also called a skew field) if every nonzero element in $R$ is a unit in $R$. A commutative division ring is called.... ***A FIELD!!!*** Such fields are things like $\mathbb Q, \mathbb R, \mathbb Z$, and, if $p$ is prime, $\mathbb Z_p$.

## Nilpotent

An element $a$ in $R$ is said to be nilpotent  if $a^k = 0$ for some $k \geq 1$.

## Ring Isomorphisms

Two rings $R$ and $S$ are said to be isomorphic if there is a mapping $\sigma: R \to S$ such that
- (1) $\sigma$ is a bijection.
- (2) $\sigma(r+s) = \sigma(r) + \sigma(s)$.
- (3) $\sigma(rs) = \sigma(r) \sigma(s)$.

Such a map $\sigma$ is called a ring isomorphism. An isomorphism $R \to R$ is called an automorphism of $R$.

## Theorem 7
If $R \neq 0$ is a ring and $|R| = p$ is prime, then $R \cong \mathbb Z_p$ is a field.
